Greetings to all Buddhist followers and
friends! Welcome to the
traditional Tet (Lunar New Year) Q&A program
with Ms. Pham Thi Yen, Dharma name Tam Chieu Hoan Quan,
head of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club
practicing the Six Harmonies. I respectfully
greet you, Ms. Yen. Today,
a viewer has a question for
you about the practice of whitewashing during
Tet to ward off evil spirits.
Ms. Yen, I see that as Tet approaches, every
household cleans and decorates their house,
and along with that, they whitewash the
walls and floors. People say
this method prevents evil spirits from
entering and causing trouble. I don't know
what spiritual effect whitewash has that can
ward off evil spirits. It's true that there are
many superstitions during Tet.
Now, let's think about this:
if whitewashing really warded off evil spirits,
how could we invite our ancestors?
Our ancestors are also in the spiritual realm, and our forefathers are
also in the spiritual realm. But what about our
deceased ancestors? We're not counting
living ancestors; we're calling them our forefathers.
But if you whitewash the house to prevent evil spirits from entering,
then our ancestors are also
in the realm of the deceased. So why
would anyone avoid them and prevent them from
returning? If they don't return, what's the point of
burning incense? That's
why sometimes there are beliefs
that, in reality, we can think of and understand
immediately, but it
also becomes a taboo, a superstition.
Ghosts follow
us because of karma; they follow because of karma,
not because they fear anything. That means
we have to understand that ghosts are just like
people. For example, if two
people have a feud, then
today they see you change in some way,
they're just being cautious. They're trying to
find out what it is and whether it's
dangerous to them.
But after they
find nothing dangerous, they come back and
attack
you. That's what ghosts do, harming
people.  In the spiritual realm, there
are many benevolent deities and guardian spirits, and
these spirits are
also very good and kind,
not evil at all. Therefore, when
Tet (Lunar New Year) comes, of course,
no one wants
wandering spirits to
come home.
We only want to worship our ancestors, not wandering
ghosts.
However, according to
Buddhist philosophy, there must be a karmic connection for things to come;
without it, they cannot come,
even ghosts. Without that connection,
we cannot
see them. For example,
there are many beings in this world,
but if we don't have the karmic connection, we can't
see them. Some people
in this world can see ghosts, but
others can't because they don't
have a karmic connection with them.
Or, they may have a karmic connection but
not the connection to see each other, so they ca
n't see each other. Therefore, whether ghosts
bother us or not
also depends on our karmic connection
with them.  No, it doesn't
depend on whitewashing walls or
roads. It doesn't depend
on that. For example, in
funerals, there are things that the
elders often do.
For instance, when there's a funeral,
people take lime and draw diagonal lines
everywhere because they see
a phenomenon. I'll explain this, it's
not directly related to this topic,
but it does have some connection. In some
families,
when there's a funeral, they forget to whitewash
a tree, and the
tree dies. That's why people
say that when there's a funeral, you have to whitewash it.
They
only see a phenomenon, but it's not
that simple. It's just a coincidence.
Because that tree is
dying, or there's a
benevolent spirit or a demon on that tree that's
connected to the deceased,
or they have a connection
to that tree.  So when a person passes
away, the
spirits or deities have lost their connection with
that person. They leave, and some
trees die. Some trees die because the
spirits or deities leave.
Therefore, the spiritual phenomenon
must be clearly understood according to the Buddha's teachings: some
trees have spirits or deities, some do
n't. But the Buddha taught that
spirits or deities reside in trees taller than 20 centimeters.
Therefore, some
trees die when the spirits or deities leave. So here
we see many
spiritual matters related to this, but
the act of whitewashing has no spiritual
connection. That is,
lime doesn't have the property of warding off evil spirits or
exorcising
them. So here,
dear fellow practitioners, you can see that in houses, especially in
cities, where do people get
lime? There's no lime at all.  In
apartment buildings, who would let you
whitewash the walls? Who would let you whitewash the
walkways in an apartment building? That's
why there are some
beliefs that shamans, wanting to gain
prestige and intimidate others, have passed down
from ancient times.
Gradually, these beliefs are
being eradicated because they are not true.
So, dear fellow practitioners and
friends, rest assured during Tet. If we use good intentions and perform
rituals correctly, and don't
do evil deeds, then evil spirits won't
follow us. However, if we have the karmic connection during
Tet, we might be followed by evil spirits. It's because we go to
places with false beliefs, perform
rituals, and ask for their blessings.
This is a karmic connection that allows evil spirits to follow us,
sometimes even from places of worship that are
n't properly established, because temples only have benevolent
deities. All evil spirits that
come to temples have already taken
refuge in the Three Jewels, and they don't follow
us. They live and eat at the temple, and they
don't follow us.  Here,
I only ask for the protection of the Buddha,
Bodhisattvas, and Dharma protectors.
Therefore,
only the Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and Dharma protectors
can use their power to support and guide
me. As for places where
worship is not done according to the Dharma, there
is no Buddha there. The Buddha said that
wherever there is killing, the Buddha and the saints
do not go there, so only demons and evil spirits exist. Sometimes,
these demons and evil spirits rely on that and claim to be this or
that deity. So, when we go there, we
ask for their protection. Then,
they have the karmic connection and follow
us. Therefore, instead of whitewashing to ward
off evil spirits, during Tet (Lunar New Year), we should
not go to places that worship false doctrines,
places that are not in
accordance with the Buddha and the saints. When
we go to those places, we offer
prayers and make requests, and sometimes the
spirits there follow us. It's
because we ask for their protection,
not just whitewashing to ward off evil spirits,
but also to ward off evil thoughts.  The ants are eliminating evil thoughts, and
cultivating an enlightened
mind. Then, we won't be
followed or harassed by evil spirits. Yes,
thank you for your answer, teacher. I hope that
through this answer, we have gained a
better understanding of this concept. It's
not about whitewashing that can
ward off evil spirits;
our encounters with evil spirits, their entry into
our homes, or their following us are all due to
karmic connections.
Wishing all Buddhist followers
and friends a healthy, peaceful, and prosperous New Year
with your families. Goodbye and
see you again!
[music]